Some thoughts on Atlantic article on Vitamin supplements. s.
Here is an article from the Atlantic I found quite surprising:

http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2013/07/the-vitamin-myth-why-we-think-we- need-supplements/277947/

First of all, we have to admit that there is some pretty heavy bias going on here. This article is quite clearly selective in favour of studies that show the inefficacy of vitamin supplements, never mentioning whether or not other modern medical meta-analysis exist which show any positive effects from any vitamin supplement, which makes me slightly suspicious. The polemicism is likewise unattractive: the fact that one misguided and possibly deranged scientist heavily promoted the efficacy of vitamins has nothing to do with whether or not they are actually effective when used IN MODERATION by ordinary people who do not expect them to cure cancer.The blatancy of the final paragraph's post hoc ergo propter hoc is also just so distasteful:"In May 1980, during an interview at Oregon State University, Linus Pauling was asked, "Does vitamin C have any side effects on long-term use of, let's say, gram quantities?" Pauling's answer was quick and decisive. "No," he replied.Seven months later, his wife was dead of stomach cancer. In 1994, Linus Pauling died of prostate cancer."This is jaw-dropping. Clearly a cases Vitamin C poisoning – why, he was only 94 years old!Despite this writer's wince-inducing logical ineptitude, I was very surprised to discover that among the few reliable statements made therein, it is true that overwhelming scientific evidence including many replicated studies and meta-analyses show that vitamin C has no effect whatsoever on cold and flu. Furthermore, it also appears to be true that the vast
amounts of vitamins we consume are largely either ineffective, not readily bio-available or are even potentially harmful.Why then do we all believe that vitamin C is what to take for colds? How can it be ethical for chemists sell it to us on this basis?Now I don't know what to do about my routines of taking all the pills and potions I take regularly as health supplements. Does anyone know more, or about any studies not mentioned that do show beneficial effects of all the supplements we take? Or have the slippery wording of the manufacturers and their advertisers succeeded to the extent that their false claims are now regarded as folk wisdom or even common sense? Vitamin supplements are SO expensive!!!Any thoughts? If you read the article and/or some study abstracts, will it change whether or not you take vitamin C when you have a cold?
Love,
Louise


